This supersedes anthologica.

Depth does not correlate with time depth.

Classical Maotic corresponds to Classical Tavarian. Modern Maotic corresponds to
pretty much everything else that's a leaf node. Caighir and Hypokuelin are
future langs which may or may not ever get developed.


Yangharad (isolate)

Macro-Neurergish
    Neurergish
        Neurerge
        Mólge
        Tårch
        Kølljell/Gensjel†
        Mercjell†
        Nåc'ha†
        Heuffe†
    *trc
        Arc'håtrc†
        Megaltrc†
        C'heltrc†
        Echintrc
        Tlåttrc
    Molgin
        Lisstrc
        Omttrc
        C'altrc
        Løtrc
        Pachatrc
        Parmsåtrc

[Bhirdh] (isolate)

[Acatathaolian]
    [Paracyndic]

Rhysleongic ([Proto-Caspre])
    [Altaïc]
    [Ramesian]

Elmin
    Śˠylʷn

Proto-*
    Proto-Taol
        Classical Maotic
            Modern Maotic
                Caighir (Thâgwhanaigh)
                [Hypokuelin]
            Dálx
            Sóróké
        [Epidálx]
        Eastern Taol
    Catathaolian
        Kyndae
        Qoqq
    Proto-*fruit
        [Dragonfruit]
         
            [Grapefruit]
            [Ugli]
        Nãka
        Artokarp
            Aatilii ([Breadfruit])
            Hētelifīlī ([Jackfruit])
            Cempedak
            Kwai Duk
            Marã
            Añili
        Kepʼel
        Bañan
    Proto-Mittelo-Tavarian
        Classical High Tavarian
            Northwest Tavarian
            Myrve
            Qhuraal
            Étéïc Tavarian
        Classical Low Tavarian (Mittelic)
            Ablesian
            Fír-Kántr
            Toi-Kántr
            Ksqyidyu (Ksqyidy Tavarian) /ks=qʲidʲ(u)/
        Inner Mittelic
            Sevrástic
    Proto-Geönian [?]
        Bårlain (Old Baerloni)
            Baerloni (Modern Baerloni)
        Geönian
            Memorizôn
            Diasus
        [Elian] (Ęttim)
        Tyräli
        [Ziklian]
        [Rithian]
        [Exaëlian]
    [Proto-*fish]
        [Ophiurean]
        [Somasterian]


The Taol family originated in the southern Talócár region. The most important
Taol language is Maotic, originally spoken around the Cabor and Maoth river
basin [In Classical Maotic, these were called the dék Cabor or "two Cabors"],
Túna, Agróme Maktos, Namó Únus. Maotic became the lingua franca of much of
Elmincár, and is the primary language spoken in almost all of Talócár.

The other important Taol language is Dálx, which is spoken in the highlands of
southern Talócár. It is characterized by a consonant shift introducing extensive
frication. The language was spoken by the Dalian empire before its collapse, and
has since weakened somewhat, with Maotic becoming more widely adopted.

A final group of very similar languages known collectively as Eastern Maotic is
spoken in patches along the southern Alóné coast; the most well standardized of
these is Soróké, which was spoken near the mouth of the Cabor but has been worn
down by heavy Maotic influence. A variety of Soróké is spoken on Etkai Tolet.

The Catathaolian family of langauges includes Kyndae and Qoqq. The former is
spoken in various settlements on the Maktos peninsula; the latter exists only
farther north, in Ashen and surrounding settlements.

The Mittelo-Tavarian family is found in the eastern (Tavarian) and far northern
(Mittelic) areas of Agrócár. The individual languages are not worked out yet.

The *fruit family exists in western Agrócár. It has some deep roots identifying
it closely with Mittelo-Tavarian, but is highly divergent and has a much more
Polynesian phonology.

The Geönian family exists in eastern Fírecár. It has a lot of substrate
vocabulary and is written with some variety of the Memorizôn syllabary.

  - SHOULD WE pull Geonian out of *? There are very few ideas for it and I feel
    like * already has too *many* CV languages (revised Maotic is mostly CV,
    Tavarian is mostly CV; *fruit definitely. Geonian is pure CV but even
    getting all the southern branches where they required a lot of finagling.
    I'd kind of rather make Geonian its own thing.

    I kind of want there to be at least one living * language in Fírecár.
    Baerloni is probably the wrong one. Geönian (aka Memorizôn/Diasus) is
    probably also wrong. Elian/Ęttim I'm not convinced about either. Maybe
    Tyräli is the right one, simply because I don't think it's part of the Elian
    family and I otherwise know literally nothing about it? So it's actually a
    completely blank slate?

The *fish family is extinct, but existed in eastern Fírecár. The site at
Kanuntás contains many Ophiurean inscriptions. Somasterian inscriptions are
scattered and harder to find. Of other *fish languages not enough evidence
remains.
